
  Lab 2b - Explore data preparation in QuickSight 
  -----------------------------------------------
   ** NOTE: This is a continuation of Lab 2 **
	
	1. Open the QuickSight console and click on 'Analysis' menu option from left-menu.
	
	2. Create a new analysis
		
		2.1 Click on 'New Analysis' button and select 'population-data' 
			(this is the dataset we created in the last lab)			
		2.2 Click on 'USE IN ANALYSIS' button
		2.3 Select 'Interactive sheet' option and click on 'Create' button.
		
		We will now be directed to 'Analysis' section of QuickSight.
		We create visuals here.
		
	3. You can add and delete visuals here. Lets work wih our first visual.
	
		3.1 Delete the 'Autograph' visual by clicking on context menu (verticle icon) and 'Delete' option.
		3.2 Add a new visual by clicking on 'Add' button (towards top-left) and selecting 'Add visual' option
		    You can resize the visual (by dragging the edges) and can move around the visual on the screen.
		3.3 Select 'Line chart' from the visual types. 
			Observe the 'fields well' section where you define dimensions and measures.
		3.4 Drop the 'year' field on the 'x-axis' (dimension); 
					 'pop-total' field on the 'value' (measure);
					 'region' field to the 'color'
		3.5 Click on the 'Format visual' (pencil icon) on the context menu on the visual	
		    Examine the options available here.
		
			3.5.6 Click on 'Edit title' button to change the title on the visual.
		3.6 Sort the X-axis data in the ascending order
			Click on the context menu on the x-axis in the field well, and set the sorting order. 
		3.7 We can change the field type between dimension and measure.
			Click on the context menu of a field and select 'Convert to dimension/measure' options as suited.
			
	4. Add an additional dataset (stockprice.csv) to our analysis
		
		4.1 Upload 'stockprice.csv" to the same bucket we created in previous lab. (cts-quicksight)
		4.2 Create a manifest JSON file for this dataset with the correct URI (stockprice-manifest.json) 
		    [Refer to the previous lab for details)
		4.3 On the QuickSight console, clik on Home icon. 
		4.4 Click on 'New Analysis' -> 'New Dataset' -> S3
		4.5 Enter the details and click on Connect
				Data source name: stockprice
				Upload manifest file: Upload	
				Upload the manifest file created in 4.2	
		4.6 Click on 'Edit/preview data' button		
		
		You are now in the 'Data preparation' section of QuickSight.
		
	5. Let's prepare this data to be added to the analysis. 
	
		As the data is tab separated, and if your manifest file says it as CSV, the data loaded into
		QuickSight looks all messed up. Lets fix this.
		
		5.1 Click on the down arrow button on the 'browser.csv' module (on the top pane above the data pane) 
			and select 'Configure upload settings' option.
		5.2 Select the following options
				File format: Tab separated (TSV)
				Delimiter: ;  (semi-colon is the delimiter in your data)
				Leave all others as default
		5.3 Edit the name to 'stockprices-dataset'
		5.4 Click on 'SAVE & PUBLISH' button to save the dataset.
		
	6. Add the new dataset (that we just created) to our analysis
		
		6.1 Open the QuickSight console and click on 'Analysis' menu option from left-menu
		6.2 Select the analysis we created earlier again. (population-dataset-analysis)
		6.3 Click on the pencil icon next to the 'Dataset' dropdown (towards top-left)
		6.4 Click on 'Add dataset' button.
		6.5 Select 'stockprices-dataset' (created in steps 4 & 5)and add the dataset.
		
	7. Add a new visual to our analysis for the new dataset (i.e stockprices-dataset)
	
		7.1 Click on the Add button (right below the home icon) and click 'Add visual' option.
		7.2 Resize the visual to fit the screen.
		7.3 Make sure 'stockprices-dataset' is selected in the 'Datasets' dropdown.
		7.4 Make sure the new visual is selected and select 'Line chart' visual type.
		7.5 Drop 'Date' to the 'x-axis' and 'Microsoft price' to the 'value' in the field wells.			
		
	8. Understanding Field Formatting, Aggregation and Granularity
	
		8.1 Change the granularity of the stocks visual from day to month.
			Click on the X-axis menu (in fields well) and select Month as aggregate.
			
		8.2 Change the aggregate to 'average' on the stock price
			Click on the value menu (in fields well) and select Average as aggregate.
			
		8.3 Change the data format of the stock price to currency. 
			Click on the value menu (in fields well) and select Show as -> Currency.
			
	9. Add title and description to your sheet of the analysis.
	
		9.1 Click on the Add button (right below the home icon) and check out 'Add title' 
		    and 'Add description' options.
			
    10. Add a new 'Verticle bar chart' visual with drilldown option
	
		10.1 Add a new visual (described @ 3.2) and place it below the the other two across the full page.
		10.2 Select 'verticle bar chart' as visual type.
		10.3 Drop 'age-group' to the 'X-axis' and 'pop-male' to the 'value' on field well
		10.4 Drop 'age-range' on x-axis right below the 'age-group' column. (make sure you see 'drill down' tool tip)
			 This adds a drill-down option to the age-group.
		10.5 Now right-click on any bar on the chart and select 'drill-down' option to see the details.
			 You can use up and down arrows to switch between main & drill-down data. 
			 
	11. Add a new 'Tree map' visual.
		
		11.1 Add a new visual (described @ 3.2) and place it at a suitable location and size.
		11.2 Select 'Tree map' as visual type. 
			 Add the following to the field wells:
				Group-by: country
				Size: pop-total
				
	12. Filters: Apply filters across all or specifc visuals.
		
		Filters can be applied to a specific visual, list of visuals or all visuals that are
		created from a specifc dataset. 
		
		12.1 Create a Date filter for the 'stockprice' visual (created in step 7). This filter
			 is applied only to this visual
			
				-> Select the visual, click on 'Filters' tab in the left verticle menu.
				-> Click on 'ADD FILTER' button and select 'Date'
				-> Click on 'Date' filter and set the following:
					Applied to: Only this visual
					Filter type: Date and time range
					Condition: Between
					Start date: 2015/01/01
					End date: 2016/12/31
				-> Click 'Apply' button	
				
		12.2 Create a String filter (on 'region' field) to be applied to all visuals created from population dataset.
		
			-> Select the first visual, click on 'Filters' tab in the left verticle menu.
			-> Click on 'ADD FILTER' button and select 'region'
				-> Click on 'Date' filter and set the following:
					Applied to: All visuals of this dataset
					Filter type: Filter list
					Search values: Check only Asia, Europe and North America
				-> Click 'Apply' button	
		
		12.3 Observe that the above filter is applied to all visuals created from the population dataset.
			
		12.4 Add a filter (on 'country' field) to 'Tree map' visual
			-> Select the first visual, click on 'Filters' tab in the left verticle menu.
			-> Click on 'ADD FILTER' button and select 'region'
				-> Click on 'Date' filter and set the following:
					Applied to: Only this visual
					Filter type: Custom filter list
					List: India, Germany, France, Indonesia (add each country in a separate line)
				-> Click 'Apply' button	 
				
	13. Add a new 'Pivot table' visual.
		13.1 Add a new visual (described @ 3.2) and place it at a suitable location and size.
		
		13.2 Select 'Pivot table' as visual type. 
			 Add the following to the field wells:
				Rows: region
				Columns: Year
				Values: pop-total
				
		13.3 Well, the data is not really cool. Lets transpose it for more visibility.
			 Click on 'swap rows and columns' icon on the visual's menu. 
			 

	14 Add a new 'Heat map' visual
		14.1 Add a new visual (described @ 3.2) and place it at a suitable location and size.
		
		14.2 Select 'Heat map' as visual type. 
			 Add the following to the field wells:
				Rows: region
				Columns: age-group
				Values: pop-male
				
	15 Add a new 'KPI' visual
	
		15.1 From 'Dataset' drop down select 'stockprices-dataset'
		15.2 Add a new visual (described @ 3.2) and place it at a suitable location and size.		
		15.3 Select 'Key Performance Indicator (KPI)' as visual type. 
			 Add the following to the field wells:
				Value: Microsoft Change %
				Target value: Apple Change %
		15.4 Let's format this a bit. Select your visual, and click on pencil icon	
			 Uncheck 'Show title' option
			 Uncheck 'Show progress bar' option
			 Change 'Comparision method' to 'Difference as percent'
		15.5 In the field wells, for 'value', change the 'Show as' to 'percent'		
		
	16 Add another 'KPI' visual
	
		16.1 From 'Dataset' drop down select 'stockprices-dataset'
		16.2 Add a new visual (described @ 3.2) and place it at a suitable location and size.		
		16.3 Select 'Key Performance Indicator (KPI)' as visual type. 
			 Add the following to the field wells:
				Value: Microsoft Price
				Target group: Date    (!! this is 'Target group', not 'Target value' !!)
		16.4 In the field wells:
				Change the 'Date' granularity to 'Aggregate: Month'
				Change the 'Microsoft Price' format to 'Show as: Currency'